Gerald Glynn: And Okay, so people who do have laptops with working webcams if you can turn on your webcam just like and see that would be great.
Gerald Glynn: And and last week we had three volunteers for keeping an eye on the chat and then kind of being my eyes on the ground, so, if I can have two volunteers for keeping on the trash can you give me a thumbs up emoji.
Lauren Coffey: yeah I can do this.
Gerald Glynn: who's that loan.
Gerald Glynn: right then.
Lauren Coffey: Just remember.
Gerald Glynn: A second volunteer.
Gerald Glynn: Charlie will you be you keep an eye on the chat for me I don't know if you did it before.
Charlie Gallagher: yeah we'll look.
Gerald Glynn: phil thanks Jerry.
Gerald Glynn: And then.
Gerald Glynn: The other job, which is the last just my eyes on the ground so it's just to confirm that you can see em.
Gerald Glynn: and whatever i'm doing email, would you be up for reminders in the Grand just means every now and again, and just kind of confirm i'm sharing correctly, you can read the white boy correctly, rather than asking the class.
Emer McGovern: yeah yeah.
Gerald Glynn: Great thanks.
Emer McGovern: So you're my eyes.
Were.
Gerald Glynn: So.
tight.
Gerald Glynn: So Amer Can you see.
Gerald Glynn: Mostly black vs code opened and then something it says assignment one.
Emer McGovern: yeah again.
Gerald Glynn: Good alright, so the first assignment it's worked at 10 mike's as 10% of the grade the today's is Friday the 18th so that's two weeks from tomorrow, and I should put a time on those.
Gerald Glynn: vm.
Gerald Glynn: Is today's so build a static website, consisting of five pages, most of the sightings should be done using external CSS so now embedded and not in line.
Gerald Glynn: And if you want to do some in line and embedded CSS that's fine post, the bulk of the styling should be an external CSS and the content should include.
Gerald Glynn: Any elements that we and i've been covering feel free to research and add your own elements so far we've covered and images we've covered and we haven't covered list and tables, so I look at that today and we didn't I don't think we covered links and.
Gerald Glynn: and probably also your website should have a contact form.
Gerald Glynn: And typically when we have a contact form we need the the fields that were filled out to be sent, and process summer so for this assignment.
Gerald Glynn: we're focusing only on front end technologies so this assignment is html and CSS only, and so, in order to actually have a functional contact form at there is a service called forum spree.
Gerald Glynn: So on that you, you can define the fields within your form, and you can send it to that service, and that will take care of the back end aspect from froze.
Gerald Glynn: A i've used it before and it's very handy for this, and this type of work, and I want you to I want you to use this over other systems like mailchimp are and.
Gerald Glynn: Other examples are there mailchimp is kind of like the usual go to mainly because mailchimp will provide you with an embedded.
Gerald Glynn: piece of code to put on your website that a generation and you don't have control over the contact form and also it's a little bit too easy and and you won't be learning how to build a contact form and then the last step is host your website on github pages so and.
Gerald Glynn: i'm going to put finally.
Gerald Glynn: Just so it's here.
And let's.
Lauren Coffey: i'm Gerry.
Lauren Coffey: You Jamie just said in the chat there Friday is actually the.
Gerald Glynn: 19th okay.
Gerald Glynn: Thank you Jamie so i'm going to amend my slides.
Gerald Glynn: And and Jamie corrected the.
Gerald Glynn: So, because this is a web development course i'm delivering as much of the course as possible through web development technologies, what this does is, you can see, when we talk about web development it doesn't have to be just websites html we can extend the tools that we're using.
Gerald Glynn: To and for other needs that we might have in this case I need to develop I need to deliver a web development course so i'm using those tools so and where, can you find everything that I just am wrote here, so if you go to.
Gerald Glynn: If you go to get up in the Houston school, you should only see a few repos here, and one of them is called web development.
Gerald Glynn: So I asked that everyone open and that repository and navigate through is for me it's it's it's very important that everyone has access to this and they're able to navigate around English so, for example, what we just looked at, there was and.
Gerald Glynn: A markdown file under assignments, so if you click on assignments and click on as your one html CSS.
Gerald Glynn: you'll see just what I wrote there and it says the 19th and everything updated so this is the, this is the list of this is the i'll ever what the assignment is for.
Gerald Glynn: I need to get the rubrics and finalized, and by l because they're and they're necessary for us to live in content that each as it has a rubric so I have a rubric.
Gerald Glynn: For this, and for those who don't know rubric it's just a matrix that will give you a clear indication of where points are being assigned within the assignment.
Gerald Glynn: And so you know where to focus your efforts and then it's very clear, you know, in order to pass the assignment, you must have the following, and then, in order to cash and.
Gerald Glynn: Like and like a two one or two to speak that language, this is what the expectations are and then, if you want to aim for em an honors.
Gerald Glynn: And to get 70 Plus, then this is wash would be indicated so that's that and follow that up and that'll be underneath there'll be a rubrics matrix underneath and the assignment on this page.
Gerald Glynn: So, and any questions on accessing this repository be able to view the assignments, and the assignment ask.
Gerald Glynn: And Okay, and then what rather than.
Gerald Glynn: Because of recording the sessions, and you can watch back and then what i'm going to focus these sessions are covering everything that you need.
Gerald Glynn: For the assignment so i'll be almost am pretty much doing like a basic skeleton of the assignment and try this class and then every now and again, we might just stop.
Gerald Glynn: And zoom in on html elements that we've introduced and then we'll em would break that down and garner better understanding of you know a bit of theory on that and maybe look up some online and documentation to help us support dash.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, any questions.
Guoyang: Derek yep, so we need beard have five web page all five website.
Gerald Glynn: Oh yeah so it's, so this is this is very good distinction doing so it's one website that has five individual web pages.
Gerald Glynn: So we discussed this and in our first class of you know what is a website and a website is at its lowest level is a collection of web pages.
Gerald Glynn: And ways for us to move between those web pages, so you might be used to going to a website, we will have a homepage, you will have a contact page web page okay okay got it.
Gerald Glynn: and any any questions like this, a please bring them up and sometimes I might part of your question, just to say we're going to address that later on in the in the class and then.
Gerald Glynn: If I if I won't address the question in the class what i'm going to do is put this on our kind of in and putting together a can ban Board of questions so he so.
Gerald Glynn: For example, there we brought up someone asked in the first class what is ecmo script and I didn't put an answer on that was at Daniel went off and got the actual what the what the acronym and so forth, and I should probably update.
That.
Gerald Glynn: So if if if if a question comes up and and either I think it's too big a question to answer within today's session.
Gerald Glynn: And i'll put it on this can man and you should have access to this yourselves and for now let's just treat it as a like a to do list for me to make sure i'm not leaving any questions on answered moving forward and m.
Gerald Glynn: And the other I might I might put a question I might determine that a question is out of the scope of the class and because I know i'm going to answer be answering it in a in a later class.
Gerald Glynn: Like good.
Gerald Glynn: And if anyone has suggest this is just a process i'm proposing for us to add to help us work together, while we're delivering courses online if anyone has suggestions.
Gerald Glynn: for things that they they feel don't work or it's it's difficult for them, please bring them to me in the class or directly and through teams josh.
Gerald Glynn: If you have suggestions on how this could be improved i'm all ears and we use this has got a combat board and and it's simply just volumes people might have used something like trial.
Lauren Coffey: and
Gerald Glynn: error, which is this type of system, and so we I use this all the time at work, but I haven't used it in this kind of context of teaching so i'm very open to suggestions of what you feel is working and not working.
Gerald Glynn: And okay before we get started i'm just going to turn the heat on here.
Gerald Glynn: And also.
Gerald Glynn: And content that we had discussed during the class and the notes I keep on the whiteboard and photograph and i'm distilling those into em alone my 10 usually per class and sometimes there might be.
Gerald Glynn: As slides that overlaps two classes, but we would break it out by m what we're focusing on further josh and so, for example, if you go into this repo under slides.
Gerald Glynn: And you'll see the first one, where basics, so this is what we discussed the first, and this is what we discussed in the first two classes and.
Gerald Glynn: No static.
Gerald Glynn: slides that will be presented to you and then and any additions that came up in the class, so you should, and this should render correctly, you can ignore this top kind of configuration.
Gerald Glynn: And so, everything and we touch on she'll be in that of course in, and it is in the recordings as well for the class and so.
Gerald Glynn: That was that was the first week and, and this is wash just a recap on what we looked at last week, so we just zoomed in on html and discussed some of the.
Gerald Glynn: necessary elements so Doc type in order to tell your browser what type of document, it is so once we do Doc type html.
Gerald Glynn: And this, this is actually telling the browser this is written, not just an html it's actually html version five and I don't know why they chose is not to put five in here about him.
Gerald Glynn: Maybe they will in the future when it comes when he knows, six and seven rows and and then we just go stash.
Gerald Glynn: We have like a tree architecture i'll touch on that may be a later today or next week and we'll do a visual representation of how your browser actually.
Gerald Glynn: A mental model of how your browser interprets your html and we discussed that has a head tag in the head tag we have a title and in the body that we just had some content and we we covered some and some basic tags in Nash.
Gerald Glynn: So just bring up.
Gerald Glynn: So this is a recap of where we were and last week.
Gerald Glynn: So we left some comments here of you know, things that we wanted to do and and we had another commentary around the footer was at john Nash, and some other and.
Gerald Glynn: Other bits and pieces, I might put dash and MySpace but this.
This project.
Gerald Glynn: So, and so one thing I want to do, while i'm writing my html file, I actually want to be able to see it in real time so just as a recap, if you right click are on your MAC control click.
Gerald Glynn: On the html5 we're looking at, we can do at copy pack don't copy relative path copy for that, and I can open up my browser and here, is where we am gotten last week.
Gerald Glynn: So what i'm proposing, and so what i'll do is i'll start fleshing out and and the skeleton for a website here and we can just.
Gerald Glynn: Follow along and i'm putting the onus on the class any times and something is something you don't understand and put it in the chat.
Gerald Glynn: And we don't have learned in Charlie you, am shattered the question and, and if you if you have recommendations like it is something that you know within an html are a better approach, please speak up and.
Gerald Glynn: You know it's not that i'm there's many ways to solve the same problem and some ways are more elegant than others and but i'd like to know.
Gerald Glynn: i'd like to get your input on your experience with html in the past, maybe you saw something written another way and that would be a great teaching point to compare and contrast my approach versus something that you would have been more used to.
Gerald Glynn: And onwards and upwards I don't like first of all I don't like the color red on my headings i'm going to put that to aim to.
Gerald Glynn: refresh okay so.
Gerald Glynn: So and we're going to need some content for my website so what i'm going to do is a just because it's something i'm updating lately, and it might be a bad idea for some of your content is to use my CV.
Gerald Glynn: And for at least one of the pages.
Gerald Glynn: Sorry, when the lights flickering here.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so this is so.
Gerald Glynn: We named the file index dot html, so this is and first of all, why index html.
Gerald Glynn: So and okay that doesn't work there, so, and when you go to a by default when this is actually hope it, this was hosted online I could.
Gerald Glynn: and give the person the URL to my domain, or the folder that contains html site and the first thing your.
Gerald Glynn: browser is going to do not surprised that the first thing that service going to do is check does this folder contain.
Gerald Glynn: A index html then a render that so usually, when you go to a web page our websites nowadays you don't see index dot html you might just see a forward slash at the end.
Gerald Glynn: And there's there's a few things that could be going on, but at a static html and an aspect it's going to look for index html so that's why we named our.
Gerald Glynn: And we named our homepage on the first page index html i'm going to another you happy with this page, but I don't really know where we want to bring people, yes, so let's just start building at a second page so.
Gerald Glynn: Early my website and i'm going to create a.
Gerald Glynn: yep.
Charlie Gallagher: just put into the chat there could you go over how you did the style and color.
Gerald Glynn: The styling color yeah.
Gerald Glynn: And nets on and again i'm going to do this actually nine in the classroom.
Gerald Glynn: So question.
Gerald Glynn: So I won't answer that now.
Gerald Glynn: But we will get to it within today's class, but I should put it here as a reminder, so if I just move on, just so we can get a new m web page and.
Gerald Glynn: up and running and then we're going to have to then we're gonna have to find a way to link these pages, so that someone can navigate to your website So what should we say at the very start with these adult type we need em html.
Gerald Glynn: We need a head.
Gerald Glynn: And within that heads i'm going to push a CV title want to put the title of the page there and i'm going to build out late some am body within that so i'm just going to take some em.
Gerald Glynn: These things So where do I find.
Gerald Glynn: This page I could copy and paste the path air from vs code, but and i'm pretty smart and I can kind of guess where this fight is going to be so I just put it right beside index so now he's going to type in CV dot html.
Gerald Glynn: And I have a blank page, because I have no content, but I do have a title, so you can see here up in the tab and the tab has been given the word CV, and that is coming from here.
Gerald Glynn: So i'm going to first of all i'm going to give my page a heading to and i'm going to call this curriculum.
A.
Gerald Glynn: CV stands for and under this and going to list some.
Gerald Glynn: yeah I just do we start off with some work beans.
Gerald Glynn: I started off in education that's usually.
Gerald Glynn: doesn't so i'm going to do a heading to, and this is my education so one of the first things I might, and I do my education in reverse order going to Jewish game.
Gerald Glynn: So am I going to tease out a couple of ways to.
Gerald Glynn: To start this will start off with just putting it as kind of plain content so in and.
Gerald Glynn: So this is copied straight from my word document and.
Gerald Glynn: As you can see the the baseline is running off and I don't like that so i'm just going to go to view.
Gerald Glynn: And then toggle word ramp so this just keeps everything on the same page and, as we can see distill started line 11.
Gerald Glynn: These these following these are not new lines it's just wrapping them into that line and then my line is to maintain so that's line to him so let's give it up with what that looks like okay like grace kind of going off the page so and and also.
Gerald Glynn: I have a new line in here Bush it just runs straight over so one thing that we did learn is that we should be using and at least a paragraph tag sorry.
Gerald Glynn: vs code, by default, we open creation and an element tag if it has a corresponding closing tag it's going to put you in for you it's it's usually a handful, but if you already have content in first it can get kind of annoying so that's just there so i'm going to.
Gerald Glynn: play tag here discontinue both of.
Gerald Glynn: Okay now uh gosh two lines of text looks a little bit nature and want to get this a bit more emphasis, so they already have.
Gerald Glynn: Their we have a heading to something i'll give this a heading three, is actually how I do have it in the word document.
Gerald Glynn: and adding three and refresh the token a bit nicer.
Gerald Glynn: And so, and then I have a paragraph presenting.
Gerald Glynn: So i'm i'm happy enough with that is a basic structure for my CV list so i'm just going to put in.
Gerald Glynn: A couple of more CV Asians.
Gerald Glynn: Actually, one thing i'm going to do what when text runs over a line, and I have these tags and running on the same line, I find it a little bit difficult to read, so what i'm going to do is press enter here.
Gerald Glynn: And press enter here and basically this thing, this is a paragraph and, and this is the block of text I just find it easier to read it's not and it's not technically important but remember.
Gerald Glynn: If you're writing html or any code, you have to think of two other people someone else that might be reading your code.
Gerald Glynn: And because they need to improve this, they need to refactor you may have left the company or the project and someone else is coming on board and taking on that page.
Gerald Glynn: They may need to make additions to this and it's their job to do it, and the second person to think about is yourself in the future, whenever you whenever i'm working on something.
Gerald Glynn: i'm in the zone i'm I know exactly the context of what i'm working on, but two months later, when I revisit my code.
Gerald Glynn: I might completely forget what I was trying to achieve whatever so it's it's important to keep your code clean.
Gerald Glynn: And for others, but also for yourself in the future, because you will forget what you were trying to do and easily so i'm just going to copy and paste another block of text in there and we send them three.
and
Gerald Glynn: underneath ish we were going to give it a paragraph.
Gerald Glynn: There is, and I selected the text and i'm just clicking the tab open.
oops.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, and you can get press tab that in dense your text or your html by two spaces and which is.
Gerald Glynn: What most people do.
Gerald Glynn: i'm just gonna put in return, as sometimes sometimes it rather than having I just deletion at bring the cursor to the very start that line deletion bring it back to the previous line and then press enter and vs code is is very smart it understand where exactly to indented.
and
Gerald Glynn: And then we'll do one more.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so now we have a.
Gerald Glynn: Now we have the headings and content underneath each okay any questions so far.
Gerald Glynn: So I have some things of interest here.
Gerald Glynn: That, if this was my web page i'd want people to.
Gerald Glynn: You know, and you know someone someone might not have ever heard of the national University of Ireland, you know I you know I want them to be able to see.
Gerald Glynn: To to go to the national University of art and I want them to have to copy my pay copy and paste my tags and then do some kind of search, you know that's that's not very good user experience, so what i'm gonna do is i'm going to create a link.
Gerald Glynn: To anyway geez homepage so energy is energy.ie and i'm going to convert this into a link so in order for me to make a link we use what's called the anchor tag, and this is represented by, and this is.
Gerald Glynn: look up some quick documentation, and so the w three schools.
Gerald Glynn: i'd recommend it before, and also at mozilla so you feel visitor.
Gerald Glynn: And tells us so it's giving an example, and so this is, this is an example on mozilla's website of some html, and this is what it looks like so.
Gerald Glynn: They have something that's called you add that, during a call it an ally and it's told me that the html a element, the tag is an anchor tag so it's actually.
Gerald Glynn: Even though they're giving me a lot of html there, this is the real and this is the real tag that's of interest so let's am just so i'm now cornered in a block i'm just going to create my anchor tag up here at first until I get used to it.
Gerald Glynn: And then we can we can put it into text so.
Gerald Glynn: With in the text with in an anchor tag is wash is and.
Gerald Glynn: Is what the user visually sees so, and so the text in between the opening and closing tag is what the user sees so let's go to my CV and see what it actually looks like so it's created some.
Gerald Glynn: text there but it hasn't actually made it into a link.
Gerald Glynn: Back to documentation, so I need to bring them somewhere, so I need somewhere somehow tattle dash an anchor link where to go, so in order to do that we add what's called an attribution.
Gerald Glynn: So this is the first.
Gerald Glynn: Time we've really looked at this, we did we did technically we did add add an attribute last week when we're looking at images and we get him to with night but it's not a great example of an attribution but this one is so in order.
Gerald Glynn: In order for the link to nowhere to go it needs this attribute so the attribution is called a truth.
Gerald Glynn: And, and in order to add an attribute to an element, we we add contributes name, we add him as an equal signs and then we add at double quotes.
Gerald Glynn: So this is the attributes and what's in the double quotes is the value assigned to that attribution so i'm just going to copy and paste anyway G in there.
Gerald Glynn: Go back to my CV page and refresh and now I click on this kind of brings them to the page so i'm happy with dash.
Gerald Glynn: And click so now i'm just going to accomplish and actually put it in my biography text I just like to sometimes write these things if they're within body attacks just working independently verse because it can guess and.
Gerald Glynn: You can get a little bit hard to kind of read, while i'm programming, so now I refresh.
Gerald Glynn: And I click.
Gerald Glynn: OK any questions any suggestions.
Gerald Glynn: So one thing I one thing I personally don't like is I want someone's on my website and and it's my intention to keep them on my website I don't want them going off getting distracted very easily distracted so one problem I see, is it clicked on this link.
Gerald Glynn: And now, and now they're interested in a big.
Gerald Glynn: And then five minutes later two hours later, like Oh, how did I end up here oh yeah I was reading Gerald CV 100 get back to Chelsea via back.
Gerald Glynn: I mean we have to go into my history so that's I think that's a bad user experience and for the user, because they probably do and come back to us that's also badge.
Gerald Glynn: You know, from a from our perspective, we want to keep them on the site, so we want to say that, so does anyone have any ideas of how I would.
Gerald Glynn: Allow them easily go to national university Bush somehow and Nash, get lost in energy and keep them somehow back to my site.
Emmanuel: You redirect the link to open a new tab.
Gerald Glynn: Who, I was not a man so Emanuel said to redirect the link to a new tab.
Gerald Glynn: So and you're on the money manual it's a technically it's not a redirect and i'll touch on redirects again and what your your that's a only a slight thing but i'm going to leave a note here, I have a question to answer, which is what is a redirect.
Gerald Glynn: i'm telling you it's not this, then we should find that at some.
Gerald Glynn: stage what it is and i'm just going to open up.
Where is our mozilla documentation.
Gerald Glynn: So and read through.
Gerald Glynn: These and we find something called tarnish.
Gerald Glynn: So where to display the link to URL as the name for browsing content, so this could be a tab a window and whatever so that it says here.
Gerald Glynn: That has a default, so we didn't give our anchor link a a target attribute.
Gerald Glynn: gosh and but it actually has one and it's it's given one by default and probably by the browser and the default one is self so that means when I click on this it's going to open this link in same and in the same window.
Gerald Glynn: We use the words nowadays window and tab quite interchangeably because, at the very start of web browsers.
Gerald Glynn: We didn't have tabs and all you had was a new browser window in your browser window, so you should clarify what that means is this here within this browser window, I have four tabs open and this over here is a new tab.
Gerald Glynn: Is it is a new window so at that's what we mean by browser that's what we mean to distinguish window and tab, however, when a sweater was originally created there was no concept of a browser tab there was just a.
Gerald Glynn: There was just a window so sometimes you might see so here, it says blank usually a new tab but users can configure browsers open a new window so and.
Gerald Glynn: The blank thing the blank at the blank value for the target attributes, just as open me up in a new window.
Gerald Glynn: and your browser and there is something in the settings to say anytime i'm told you doing your window just open a new tab and you can you can use the override dash within your.
Gerald Glynn: within your settings but, most people like to have it, as in a new tab, so this is an attribution so we just have to write another.
Gerald Glynn: And attributes within our anchor link, and this was called.
Gerald Glynn: target that is the name of that is the attribute equal signs.
Gerald Glynn: Double quotes and then we just give it a value blank.
Gerald Glynn: And now I will refresh now when I click on my ankle link fingers crossed it opens it up in a new and in a new tab and I can get lost on a new agey and I go where was I originally and I can see oh yeah I was looking at your CV I go back Jesse.
Gerald Glynn: and any questions on that.
Gerald Glynn: So we can see here tarnish has some other attributes parents and top these are very, very us, this is the main reasons for these is the was a technology and.
Gerald Glynn: heavily used and called it friends, they are at very much recommended not to use i'm not going to be teaching I frames in this module and.
Gerald Glynn: But they were they were used when the wasn't and kind of something else Jesus said so a classic example is.
Gerald Glynn: A few years ago, if you wanted to embed a YouTube video onto your site you're not hosting Nash YouTube video and YouTube is so what people would do is they'd create an iframe and YouTube would give you a URL and when I frame, it is it's almost like a little window into another and.
Gerald Glynn: A web page, so the reason why it's frowned upon is because now, you have a we talked about the Dom so now, you have the html Dom.
Gerald Glynn: And then within that you have a window to another html down and that web pages have could have other ones so it's very hard to and it's just badge kind of practice, but it was a workaround at the time and now with html5 we have tags like embed and we have other m.
Gerald Glynn: Other elements that we can use to do the same thing, so we don't want to use I frames and the reason why it has something like parents and top is because it has a link within Nash.
Gerald Glynn: web page in the iframe if you click on it you're saying open up new from within the what iframe which you may want to reference the parent, which is yours so we're not going to go into those details, all you ever really need to know for tigers is blank.
Gerald Glynn: So there's a couple of other attributes there and we're not going to go into them for anchor tags.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, take a look at my CV okay so.
Gerald Glynn: that's okay for education so i'm going to move on and population myself CV with some work experience.
Gerald Glynn: he's going to clean this up rubbish anytime any as we discussed last week, these enters these new line breaks and don't affect the html at all so, and this is this can be frustrating at once, you understand why and how to get an English, then you can do.
Gerald Glynn: You can work around this so actually one thing that was mentioned last week is you can you can introduce the break element.
Gerald Glynn: And this is this is.
Gerald Glynn: This is an basically it's like a blank paragraph it says, this is just going to force a break let's see what that looks like at the bottom.
Gerald Glynn: didn't really do anything.
Okay.
Gerald Glynn: So that's quite a gap there.
Gerald Glynn: have one.
Gerald Glynn: It still feels a bit big not gonna one of the problems I have with this is looking is the gap between.
Gerald Glynn: The paragraph and the hedging is the same as the gap between the paragraph and then below So for me visually it doesn't actually look like that paragraph belongs under that heading so let's park that for now and that's will look at dash and later on.
Gerald Glynn: So what I say next is work experience, so I did my education as a heading to so i'm going to do work experience as.
You.
Gerald Glynn: And then i'm going to put in an example of so much experience.
Gerald Glynn: This is my current.
Gerald Glynn: role.
Gerald Glynn: For.
Gerald Glynn: So.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, nothing new there.
Gerald Glynn: Now i've.
Gerald Glynn: read through the Bible because quite me see this as many times i'm a front end developer data analyst on swagger up a pleasure it's my prayer okay.
Gerald Glynn: swagger is it a SAS rest API designed to have a little both cloud and on premise responsibilities include delivering every features continue maintaining have a fee here means front end front end stack which includes when I give a big long list of things that I do so and.
Gerald Glynn: So for printed CV I want to keep my CV to two pages so that's why I kind of have that dense push now we have a web page now so.
Gerald Glynn: i'd like to make this last part always more readable.
Gerald Glynn: Can anyone give me suggestions of how I might make those lists of technologies more readable.
Gerald Glynn: So if you were doing if you were representing this and word.
Gerald Glynn: Would you would you normally have a long list of items like that are getting.
planes.
Gerald Glynn: Sagan email.
Emer McGovern: Bulletin yeah.
Gerald Glynn: yeah so as you can and yeah so bullet points are a.
Gerald Glynn: perfect example of this, so when we talk about something, and so the bullet point is the each item and those bullet points belong to a list so.
Gerald Glynn: You probably know this from just experience but there's two types of lists you sometimes see lists with bullet points and you sometimes see lists with numbers.
Gerald Glynn: And an html we have two elements for each of those lists types, one of them is called an ordered list an ordered list that is when it has numbers and and and then we have an ordered list, which is when we have bullet points so i'm just going to go to my.
Gerald Glynn: And mozilla documentation here and i'm going to put in for for me, you know it's not important the order of these it's i'm not getting steps you know i'm not.
Gerald Glynn: ranking things in some kind of flow so i'm going to use an on ordered list and then maybe later on, we can find.
Gerald Glynn: A good example for my CV or some some rounds, to use an ordered list so so our demos at a documentation, we have the on the ordered list element click on Nash, and see what that.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so it gives me an example of html and how that renders oce so as you can see that's pretty Nice and also something it does actually is, it has.
Gerald Glynn: And nested So if I wanted to have a bullet point entrepreneur point So the first thing we need to do and i'm going to give me some some some space here is.
Gerald Glynn: So I am going to say continuously maintaining our front end stack which includes, and this is my list so i'm going to open up with the ul tag which stands for an ordered list and I need to give us a list item, so this here and I is the list item within each and is.
Gerald Glynn: The list Asian within the on ordered list Okay, so I have quite a chunk of things there so i'll put in some of them, he has six he has an item list and react.
Gerald Glynn: What i'm typing in these feel free to jump in with any questions.
Gerald Glynn: Just do two more.
Gerald Glynn: And then I have this other item on my CV and testing with jest So for me that feels like a set brush.
Gerald Glynn: listen more technology is there for some feels like to me like a separate list i'm going to create a list item called testing.
Gerald Glynn: And now, this list item is a list itself.
Gerald Glynn: So let's see how we can do that, so another coat on on that, just so it looks Nice.
Gerald Glynn: And here i'm craving a second on ordered this.
Gerald Glynn: And i'm putting going to copy and paste these in.
Gerald Glynn: And just is what is, for your testing.
Gerald Glynn: company based based.
Gerald Glynn: Okay.
Gerald Glynn: So, as you can see here, these are just written in one line or because the list is and testing contains another and block element I can now.
Gerald Glynn: Bring that closing tag down to here and anything I want with the end that tag, then I can rise again to look and.
Gerald Glynn: This is probably our first decent example of elements within elements, so now we have nested elements within our.
Gerald Glynn: and
Gerald Glynn: Okay, any questions on this.
Gerald Glynn: and aware that aesthetically my CV and my html is looking great but that's now we won't we're not going to address that in.
Gerald Glynn: html we're going to address that when we introduce styling so Personally, I really like these bullet points.
Gerald Glynn: and definitely the harder ones that don't like him so i'm going to want to address that, but this is this is how, and this is how opera has decided to render those bullet points let's just quickly look at how another.
Gerald Glynn: browser granderson.
Gerald Glynn: So this is very.
Gerald Glynn: it's pretty much the same i'm just going to do a quick comparison with firefox there was a time where at browsers when it came to things like lists and headings, they and there was quite a lot of difference between them, I think they've all.
Gerald Glynn: they've all started to.
Gerald Glynn: Look same yes pretty much the same 5%, so I think a lot of prizes now they are default styling it's kind of em is more lined up, but you may come across as some time where you you, you would you were developing your Web.
Gerald Glynn: site using our prayer or firefox and then someone opens it up a user example is Internet explorer and not completely different.
Gerald Glynn: So one of the things we want to ensure that Iran is dash we have very strict styling in place so that there is no difference between browsers and we have full control over that and that there's consistency across all will and will handle that later.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so what else do we have in my CV.
Gerald Glynn: Is a lot of items here, but there i'm looking for things that we might want to style differently and Okay, actually, I have a section called skills and interest and use as an example because there's actually a lot of Sub headings in Nash.
Gerald Glynn: So I leave work experience for now i'm going to put in to copy and paste in a big blob of.
Gerald Glynn: text and i'm going to clean this up so skills, an interesting comes under heading to.
Gerald Glynn: And under that I have a skill or interest which is analytics i'm going to put that up on the head in three.
Gerald Glynn: And i'm going to push details about dash pain, a paragraph.
Gerald Glynn: same here.
Gerald Glynn: So here, I have a heading three, and then I have something i've broken this out into other things we can go heading for can remember have five know headings, I think it's up to heading six and then, and there is no heading seven, and in html and summarizes my.
Gerald Glynn: Do something with this, but as far as you know, adding six is the and the last page and here i'm talking about front end react so kind of put dash in adding as well.
Gerald Glynn: Okay i'm gonna pull out some of these so Nash.
Gerald Glynn: Is.
Gerald Glynn: Just do one more, and then I had that list is front end.
Gerald Glynn: experience.
And this is back.
Gerald Glynn: And then here, I have something knowledge of.
Gerald Glynn: i'm going to leave it at that, because it's nothing new to us, so the main.
Gerald Glynn: The main point here is dash.
Gerald Glynn: And it's for assigning perspective, I can put in heading to Heading three, and then have sub headings and further.
Gerald Glynn: and
Gerald Glynn: had to give an example of em heading sub headings again can anyone think of any other reason why it might be good to use headings, other than a visual.
Gerald Glynn: So when I read this as a human being.
Gerald Glynn: I see work experience and then I see this and do this when I see education, and I see this.
Gerald Glynn: As under education, and I see this under that heading So for me I I understand visually from what is look like that this paragraph.
Gerald Glynn: Is under this heading and the dis heading is under this heading, but so visually there when I when I read this they're nested But when I look at html.
Gerald Glynn: they're not nested so what I what I mean by nested is within our this list.
Gerald Glynn: This you know exists under this list item, when I look at heading to the paragraph isn't part of the html three tag it said, its own level two and you can see that, within the html sitting there at the same level, but visually and how I comprehend it is that it is endless.
Gerald Glynn: So and and we want, and when a search Bosch comes and read our website, or when a blind person uses em some technology to read the website as them and to them and some I don't know if anyone's heritage or use any.
Gerald Glynn: Any of those two called area tools.
Gerald Glynn: And Bush I work with and a group of blind people and it's amazing to actually see how they navigate the website so when when when when one of those tools.
Gerald Glynn: would read this website and to them, you know it doesn't really make sense for to start reading ash top to bottom everything.
Gerald Glynn: Because this is a long CV so they might have it set up to say Okay, first of all read me out the headings and that's all so they can read out this.
Gerald Glynn: This and this and then the blind person can get back to say okay and read out the content under the second so betting that you gave me so they can talk to the machine like that.
Gerald Glynn: Also, when a search Bosch a scanning your content it's really important that this it knows that what i'm writing here belongs under this so this.
Gerald Glynn: is something i'm going to be driving home quite large is this is the main, and this is the motivation for using headings Nash, how they look so a common thing that people do is they come along here and they say, well, this is really big so i'm going to make that a heading for.
Gerald Glynn: High that looks nicer it's not so big I don't want to give it so much tension, this is not good, because it does a heading to heading forward so I go, whereas heading three, you know, and this is going to throw a search bar off and.
Gerald Glynn: So we use when we're using.
Gerald Glynn: Am heading tags and building up a hierarchy of them it's very important that we stick to and the order H1 H2 H3 if you don't like how it looks that's that's a problem that solved elsewhere.
Gerald Glynn: Okay.
Gerald Glynn: So we're an hour in.
Gerald Glynn: Any questions.
Baptiste Gilistro: awesome so pretty fair to me.
Gerald Glynn: Okay.
Thanks buddy.
Gerald Glynn: So so maybe I think a next step from here might be good to am stuck because we were discussing signing that that's The next step i'll take a within with this evidence, the example and what i'm going to do is.
Gerald Glynn: say I want to post this up see have.
Gerald Glynn: came.
Gerald Glynn: Around to.
Gerald Glynn: Oh yeah we'll continue on and so last week we touched on, we did some styling we put it at the top of the html page, and this is called embedded so.
Gerald Glynn: And so, this lives in the head.
Gerald Glynn: So we say style.
Gerald Glynn: And then now within the style block.
Gerald Glynn: And the codes that we raised with any steinbach This is called CSS.
Gerald Glynn: So.
Gerald Glynn: who's here.
Gerald Glynn: And all I did there was if you select.
Gerald Glynn: Any piece of text and press command forward slash it turns whatever, whatever your selected into what we call a comment, so a comment and.
Gerald Glynn: Is it won't be rendered ash to the html this this comment wouldn't be anyways and but let's say for an example like Okay, you know, this is something i'm working on, but I don't want it to be it's not ready, yes, so I can just do em command or control forward slash and this will turn into.
Gerald Glynn: A common so that's as we can see that Nash, and visible within the browser if I inspect element.
Gerald Glynn: So, as we looked at last week, if I right click.
Gerald Glynn: It within the browser and say inspect element, it brings me to a tab called elements, so this is html as the browser is is it still there it's just and you can see it's actually great items within the tools it's just totally knowledge and so let's actually put that in our example.
Gerald Glynn: This is a html comment.
Gerald Glynn: As I said, we're now within the style tank so with in within the confines of the opening and closing style tag we're not writing html we're writing CSS, and this is what a CSS comment looks like.
Gerald Glynn: And it's usually something that's useful if if it's not clear wash some of your code is doing to explain to those two other people that we talked about the other.
Gerald Glynn: Am programming and yourself in the future and and then the other time it's useful is if something isn't working that you've tried.
Gerald Glynn: Rather than deleting the code, you can just come to them and then see you know see if you can solve that so let's do some styling here.
Gerald Glynn: So one thing I don't and I want to start my heading one tag so in here, I do H1 and i'm like wait, this is left aligned on my CV it's it's central to the page.
Gerald Glynn: And also it's named RON curriculum the day.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so we're going to want to align that text so in word our word passes into We might say it's left aligned.
Gerald Glynn: Are right aligned if you're by default, if your language reads right to left as it does in Arabic and then there's centered and there's another one called justified so we're going to see if we can find out how can we am central Texas.
Gerald Glynn: So aim and CSS text to nine see what Dr go because it's fear sells.
Gerald Glynn: Can it gives the Web three and then the mozilla it's going to open up these both because a.
Gerald Glynn: I like mozilla I use mozilla's documentation at work, because it's it's very technical and it's it's got a lot of good support behind it, but I have found when I was learning.
Gerald Glynn: Either new elements are learning web development at the start and web three schools had em kind of Nice nice learner approach to examples let's just look at this one, so it says.
Gerald Glynn: It is Dave does a dub be that I don't know what that means put in the black side you know what it means push we haven't covered that yet.
Gerald Glynn: But in the end it says text align Center so just seen that so i'm I want to tell each one.
Gerald Glynn: element to introduce i'm going to give us a.
Gerald Glynn: Next aligned and then all my vs code is really smart and it knows all the values that this m.
Gerald Glynn: That text align and accepts, so one of them is Center and it's putting that presenter and I put a semi colon at the end.
Gerald Glynn: This is our first time looking at html is kind of code push we don't have to adhere to which coding practices is, it is a type of coding and.
Gerald Glynn: In a lot of coding languages, when we want to tell, whatever the interpreter of the code is that this is the end of the line, say, we call on semi colon is m.
Gerald Glynn: pretty much in all of them and CSS him muted as well let's go back to my CV refresh good okay my.
Gerald Glynn: we're heading is now in the middle okay i'm looking for i'm not a great designer so can anyone give me some input on how you think this my CV could look better.
Gerald Glynn: There was a recommendation earlier on, regarding add color can remember who put that in the chat with that.
Gerald Glynn: Just was that you to put in color.
Gerald Glynn: To take and i'm going to take this question and starting Connor as our next.
Gerald Glynn: thing to do so and i'm going to give my H1 tag a color.
Gerald Glynn: So we just say color and CSS and html I written in American English, so we don't have all your it's got it.
Gerald Glynn: And it comes provided a list of colors by names let's see on there.
Gerald Glynn: i'm going to go for dark Simon.
Gerald Glynn: This is a color and the colors name.
Gerald Glynn: Fresh okay.
Gerald Glynn: Now I like that color and so i'm going to I want.
Gerald Glynn: I want my heading tues to also have that color, so I do H2.
Gerald Glynn: i'm just going to copy and paste his line.
Gerald Glynn: refresh and our education, work experience skill skill and interest all have dark side.
Gerald Glynn: i'm writing the same thing twice, I think I mentioned this before.
Gerald Glynn: And in programming, we want to.
Gerald Glynn: We want to be driving.
Gerald Glynn: want to write our code try.
Gerald Glynn: and dry stands for don't.
repeat.
yourself.
Gerald Glynn: So i'm appreciating myself here, this is fine it's only a small web page, but if my company had a branding and dark side on was the color of choice for.
Gerald Glynn: For content all over the website Sunday, I would find myself and having this color dioxide repeated in multiple places and then one day conferences okay we're going to do a rebrand we're no longer using dark siren we're using.
Gerald Glynn: To.
Gerald Glynn: and his web developer and refresh and actually that's too close we've got to do a big rebranding and we're.
Gerald Glynn: Changing everything to deep pink.
Gerald Glynn: And I say to the marketing designer people that come to me and says yeah I changed is to bring in as a no, no, you have to do this when you have to order them.
Gerald Glynn: Oh man that's like everywhere, I have this referenced hundreds of places i'm going to have to now go to my code base vinyls basis to this anytime we have.
Gerald Glynn: lines of code or patient it's Jupiter work that's going to have to do the work that's been done today, but they maintain ability of my code now increases quite a lot.
Gerald Glynn: So I can say what I want my heading 1am I heading tues to be deep think so I can group at.
Gerald Glynn: These.
Gerald Glynn: blocks.
Gerald Glynn: So now, at my which one is Center lined and now i'm saying, well, I want to group, like colors so I can actually I can repeat page one here, I can actually repeat a one by itself, and do, and he looks to the as an exercise.
Gerald Glynn: But you can repeat your these ah ah ah ones they're not am.
Gerald Glynn: You know, not everything has to be under the same block, so this this here, it just makes sense to break out the color and I want your brain to H1 and H2.
and
Gerald Glynn: Any questions on Nash.
Gerald Glynn: Okay now here's something interesting on it ah, one is told to be text align Center in the color blue and then after that i'm i'm told each one is to have the color pink so anyone have any guesses what's going to happen.
Gerald Glynn: it's one or two things by each one is going to be blue are deep think so, and give me a thumbs up on your.
Gerald Glynn: You got emojis on your who's my eyes cleaner, is there a mo geez listed on your zoom to.
Emer McGovern: me yeah there is under reactions it's a clapping hands tommy's or laffy face shocked harish or.
Gerald Glynn: Like apparently yeah.
Gerald Glynn: disappeared from my.
Emer McGovern: thing I had in the last day.
Gerald Glynn: It just means polling new shirt no date.
Gerald Glynn: picker rooms okay anyways.
Gerald Glynn: You I disappear off my thing, but they should be on your side, maybe because i'm the host and so i'm going to put it i'm going to put you all in gallery view.
Gerald Glynn: So, if you think the color is blue give me a thumbs up reaction.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, we got one thumbs up thumbs up.
Gerald Glynn: thumbs up.
Gerald Glynn: Okay 407 to touch on them Okay, so we have four in terms of bloom and put your thumbs up everything that's going to be deep link.
Gerald Glynn: This that.
Gerald Glynn: and
Gerald Glynn: The other ones.
Gerald Glynn: Okay i'm gonna pull I gotta pull some actual Paul you had thumbs up for H1 being blue, can you give me time i'm not expecting you to be other islands and is wondering what Why would, why do you think it would be blue.
Gerald Glynn: And Bali they're.
Charlie Gallagher: Currently, put in the chat there that he is at work he doesn't have a.
Gerald Glynn: mouth so and and learn I am I am just going off memory now lauren you had you had ah one was going to be blue Joanna.
Lauren Coffey: yeah I said blue because it's the first one you have there, and you just have each one, whereas the pink has he decided as well, but that's a clear on.
Gerald Glynn: Who notes and logic, so I mean there's a couple of reasons.
Gerald Glynn: First of all, it's.
Gerald Glynn: And I talked about H1 twice.
Gerald Glynn: And the first time I talked about ish I say it's blue so that sounds logic and the other one which is a good point.
Gerald Glynn: And doesn't really apply to this, but it does apply later on, is you know this block is about hate ones and twos so that sounded a little bit more ambiguous so maybe.
Gerald Glynn: Maybe CSS says, well, this one is blue is on H1 so this should take precedence, so I think there's definitely send things there and H2 and I think I saw your thumbs up for you think H1 will be pink.
Anne Harmon: yeah I I don't really know what it would be their way, but my thought is because it's the newer entry.
Anne Harmon: Okay, would override.
Anne Harmon: The older one but.
Gerald Glynn: yeah that's good sound logic there.
Gerald Glynn: So, because just to.
Gerald Glynn: rehash that so because the color on the H1 is a newer entry it had a came afterwards, and that that would maybe kind of override a previous one okay we've waited long enough let's refresh your page.
Gerald Glynn: What is.
Gerald Glynn: Of course.
Gerald Glynn: Yes, so each one I refresh there ah, one is a deep link and just to make sure so it's good when you're doing these things like Oh, maybe you know, maybe my blue color wasn't actually done correctly, so what i'm doing here is i'm.
Gerald Glynn: Testing my my logic i'm like okay so.
Gerald Glynn: In this is the testing analogy, but in when you're when you're trying to understand or depot your code.
Gerald Glynn: And you're commenting things in a house and changing things you're essentially testing in your own way.
Gerald Glynn: And it's important that if you're building a theological framework in your mind.
Gerald Glynn: They say never trust a test you haven't seen break, so in this case, I want to test equations I want to make sure blue does actually work and that wasn't.
Gerald Glynn: written incorrectly or maybe maybe he maybe CSS doesn't even know what blue is and so i've seen a blue and now i'm going to put in my deep pink refresh and.
Gerald Glynn: So it's the second one, and the reason why, and I knew at you, you had a good example, there is because it's the last entry is overrides the previous entry, so we talked about what CSS stands for it's called a cascading.
Gerald Glynn: style.
Gerald Glynn: sheet.
Gerald Glynn: And this is what the cascading means so any it's not a great word it doesn't.
Gerald Glynn: I don't think it kind of explains very well, but it means that the last thing that the CSS renders is is will override anything before this is both a blessing and a curse so at work.
Gerald Glynn: We have to be very careful how we write CSS because, if I wrote a and as a block of CSS that was only because it was lower jam.
Gerald Glynn: Before in a previous one, and if it was time using something I could end up, and I can end up breaking the styling of something else.
Gerald Glynn: Totally somewhere else totally on the website, but I wasn't even looking at and my QA tester they might never ever told so.
Gerald Glynn: And that's its curse but the blessing, is that it gives you a lot of control and over everybody let's actually look at the browser and web development tools i'm going to right click on that heading.
Gerald Glynn: And at today's we've just been looking at the elements here and that reflects pretty closely the hmm of emerging and i'm going to pull this tab over.
Gerald Glynn: And here, it shows me and within this window, it shows me as a tab called styles and any patient or any adamant I select it will tell me the styling of that element so here.
Gerald Glynn: It says it was blue and then has a strike to Jewish because this one came nature and over relish so that is.
Gerald Glynn: The cascading nature of style sheets and what's nice about this as styles development tools is I can actually toggle things on enough, so I can be.
Gerald Glynn: It is very useful for debugging I can see Oh, I put a deep pink what happens if I turn that off Oh, it goes back to blue so within these tools, you can am in real time and.
Gerald Glynn: You can interact with so of course anything I do here doesn't stick, so I toggled all the styling off that I did notice refresh and it goes back to normal, so you just interacting with document in the browser you're doing nothing, with the source code.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so also so.
Gerald Glynn: Before I move on any questions on that.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so and so before, so I wrote this code, I wrote this code what's this underneath.
Gerald Glynn: So, before I little bugbear about em.
Gerald Glynn: But they didn't feel the paragraph below the heading three look like it was part of touch because the because the gap here and the CAP period is the same, so why is.
Gerald Glynn: It click on Heading three, and I look at styles here and it it, it has loads of size listed that I didn't right, so this these styles are being and.
Gerald Glynn: These are the defaults ties it actually says a user agent styles each user agent means the browser in this context, so opera has said, well, the way I do it is entries his.
Gerald Glynn: I give them these am staying so let's look at these for a moment, so fun side I don't mind a fun size margin block start merging in line start and.
Gerald Glynn: So margin sounds like it's the thing at the top and the bottom and it's applying them using margin so so what i'm going to do is.
Gerald Glynn: I can't the the user agent style sheet, I can toggle these on and off, but a nice thing I can do is anything that's selected here, I can rise in real time.
Gerald Glynn: My CSS so first of all, do something that we used to do color.
Gerald Glynn: And i'm going to get a bit more imaginative with clothes and okay let's go for this and i'm aware.
Gerald Glynn: to chop my color choices aren't the best and i'm dealing with what, what are the default colors and before we finish up.
Gerald Glynn: What we'll do is we'll look at how to actually apply your own colors and side of the browsers Polish so cool Okay, so I did I did that on on the element didn't apply to any other means, because actually what it's doing here in the browser is it's writing this right into the tag.
Gerald Glynn: So I can see there.
Gerald Glynn: And when I turned it off just introduced that CSS comment that we had before so what's this doing in real time is just flying my tab colors into the tag, so this is what we talked about before we said in line styling.
Gerald Glynn: The unfortunate part of an inciting I mean the good thing is that we can target something very easily and just hang on but we like to keep our signs outside of the html because the different concerns so for the browser This is fine, what it's doing but let's see if I can get.
tricky.
Gerald Glynn: know it needs at least one styled to.
Gerald Glynn: create a new style block here and I don't know what I want to do it, yet I haven't started just kind of give us a basic and.
Gerald Glynn: When was the color we gather, we have a blue it's going to write this on my goals and I will show you I know it's now refresh all my heading trees now are blue then right click on Nash.
Gerald Glynn: And i'm going to click on the element tag here.
Gerald Glynn: And now, it gives me element style, so I can override dash.
Gerald Glynn: For that particular element, but that's not really much easier, I want to, I want to be able to try and style in real time.
Gerald Glynn: On all my heading three, because I want to see what they look like and now, because I have at least one heading 3am style written now I can interact directly with the Dom.
Gerald Glynn: and adding things here so let's do it's just the font size so actually that was one of the things I had an issue with I was tempted to give these are heading for because they want the font size to be smaller but now I can.
Gerald Glynn: Now I can.
Gerald Glynn: override the user agent the the browsers funds is very in tune with my own preferred one so here, you see a list of and.
Gerald Glynn: Here we see medium large.
Gerald Glynn: and small small small NGO smaller and extradited to go and medium.
Gerald Glynn: And what was the other.
Gerald Glynn: thing I had an issue with I I wanted the text below to feel like it was more part of that heading, so this underneath so let's just I saw it said something about margin block margin, and this is look at computed so there's a confusion tab.
Gerald Glynn: And this, and this breaks down and this shows me.
Gerald Glynn: What this has actually been how it's been completed and and what's actually being understood, first of all, one thing very interesting is.
Gerald Glynn: color doesn't show blue it actually shows something orgy be 00 to five five let's look at that nature so that's what it's computing the color blue to be.
Gerald Glynn: Then I have display block and it's this block and and started being calculated so blocking and block margin block and and block storage, I think there and.
Gerald Glynn: New CSS stuff that they're bringing in and Bush i'm going to start off i'm going to do this with a simpler CSS and it's just called em.
Gerald Glynn: margin, and I can just do dash and bottom.
Gerald Glynn: And let's just give that a 02 it does.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, to do.
computed.
Gerald Glynn: ergin and managing.
Gerald Glynn: It didn't bring the paragraph up i'm going to look at the paragraph, it has its own margin.
Gerald Glynn: that's sticking up, I want to, and I want to decrease that as well, this is where margins gets a little confusing and when we won't look at it today, but we'll we'll discuss and how our html renders days and squares and how things are respected so just for add two days.
Gerald Glynn: Okay i'm gonna use a hacky solution for today and.
Gerald Glynn: we'll see so I made the margin zero so before.
Gerald Glynn: Before when I didn't have a margin, when I hover over the element I see it highlights it in in the browser it highlights.
Gerald Glynn: The text of the elements and blue, and then it has this orange top and bottom, so the orange is the margin of around that box now when I put in the margin bottom to be zero when I hover over now I only have a margin at the top.
Gerald Glynn: And the gap is still being maintained because of the margin on the paragraph, so one way to deal with this and we'll come up with a better solution.
Gerald Glynn: Is you can actually have minus margins so minus margin just says well i'm going to pull the thing up blow me up into me so we get minus 20 pixels see that looks like or very touch amigo 1816.
Gerald Glynn: that's Nice.
Gerald Glynn: So the reason why I did this is because well I don't want to I don't want to remove the top margins and all paragraphs, like the might be.
Gerald Glynn: Reasons for maintain that most of the tub elsewhere in this particular scenario want when it's below adding three that it's closer to wish, so now i'm using a minus minus margin.
Gerald Glynn: And i'm going to remove.
and
Gerald Glynn: So now, when I look at this okay i'm happy with that uh gosh mighty so Now for my headings threes i'm going to do fun size.
Gerald Glynn: medium so everything I did here was just in the browser because it's I find it a nicer way to write CSS and in real time, so I can see, but of course I need to put this actually in my CSS block.
Gerald Glynn: And then I didn't mind margin bottom line is 12 pixels save and now i'm going to refresh my page, which will remove any work, I was doing here, so this is.
Gerald Glynn: This is one caveat to remember is when your styling in here as soon as you refresh the page, you lose everything you've worked on so it's kind of like a little bit of em.
Gerald Glynn: kind of digital workspace don't don't if you have something that you're happy with make sure you get into your CSS before so refresh and now, when I go to Heading three, I can see my styles are there because they inherited from my CSS book okay we're coming up to 22 so.
Gerald Glynn: Any questions so far.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so I started off.
Gerald Glynn: With a my homepage.
Gerald Glynn: The homepage is looking very unloved good person to my CV page.
Gerald Glynn: So you know I wanted to be consistency with study across my size, so this is very easy I rush my style of.
Lauren Coffey: heroes yeah all just said in the chat there i'm can you just explain how to not lose that work piece.
Gerald Glynn: yeah yeah.
Gerald Glynn: So.
Gerald Glynn: I just really a reiteration now so when I right clicked so originally I just go back into this from step one time, to the question, Paul so come to my page I was doing something with this and heading, so I right clicked on it and I inspected the element.
Gerald Glynn: It shows me the html here on the Left and the Right, it shows me the styles that are being applied to that, so this here is trying to refresh it's just almost like a sandbox that you can you can blame it on you can.
Gerald Glynn: add anything you want to so margin.
Gerald Glynn: Top 20 pixels or something a bit more drastic.
Gerald Glynn: So, so the point is this is Nash, in any way connected back to the code that you're writing this is only temporary within here so it's important that.
Gerald Glynn: Any tweaks that you have made in real time in the sandbox that in order once you're happy with them, you need to put them back in your CSS.
Gerald Glynn: and actually new CSS code now I wrote those out one by one, sometimes the CSS block you'd have you've written quite a bit of work.
Gerald Glynn: And, and if i've i've written for things there I should feel nervous name, because this isn't this is transient I need i'm happy with that i've done a piece of work.
Gerald Glynn: It took me a while to do so, rather than typing out one by one another thing you can do is you can actually select with in and within the browser tools, so I selected all the lines, though, and I can right click and copy or compress and commander control C.
Gerald Glynn: And just kind of deletion what I did there.
Gerald Glynn: And fingers crossed I can copy and paste and copy base amazing little bit messy I didn't get the inventing right, so what I can do, there is like an indent itself.
Gerald Glynn: it's debatable indent again is in denting your browser doesn't care about those endings.
Gerald Glynn: Is.
Gerald Glynn: It actually it actively ignores them, so their for their for me to be able to read this now i've put it into side luck and now I can rest of these okay i've taken this copied what I was doing in the browser sandbox Dev tools edge, and now I can feel confident, I can refresh my page.
Gerald Glynn: And, and if I had added and i'm just going to do.
Gerald Glynn: A silly one margin left under ish.
Gerald Glynn: To bring us in and so just to reiterate the point and I didn't I didn't copy and paste that into my CSS block so now, when I refresh.
Gerald Glynn: The margin left is lost, so this is a transient em space, so I know you're right Bobby if you want to give me a thumbs up emoji if dash clarifies your question, could you think.
Gerald Glynn: So I am okay Moving on, so I did some really nice work here on heading ones and heading tues I have a heading one heading to on my side here so and.
Gerald Glynn: Say Okay, I want to apply those I want to have consistency across my website.
Gerald Glynn: i'm going to apply my new styles into here.
Gerald Glynn: and
Gerald Glynn: And I got to remove this willing to come okay.
Gerald Glynn: Okay i'm gonna be i'm really smart i'm like oh no I don't want to do, I don't have any three, so this is, and this is cold, I do not need so I want to be.
Gerald Glynn: You know, I only want code on the page dash reflects the page and I go to my next page and I gosh a heading one it's just another smaller because i've zoomed out on this one so i'll zoom in.
Gerald Glynn: zoom never later so i'm doing into hundreds here just because i'm on a 4k monitor OK cool so I got a heading one heading to pink cool my branding is on.
Gerald Glynn: On point what's the problem can anyone think of a why I shouldn't do this.
Gerald Glynn: So i'm just I just don't bring up the two pages, side by side in the am in vs code week to consume.
Gerald Glynn: So.
Baptiste Gilistro: So you're asking why.
Baptiste Gilistro: The two pages open next to it.
Gerald Glynn: Joe and no so what i'm asking is and i've done I just know the word styling my CV very happy British some of that citing I want on my homepage so like computers into my homepage So why is why is having this block in my homepage and on my CV a bad idea.
Gerald Glynn: give everyone a heads.
Gerald Glynn: don't repeat yourself.
Gerald Glynn: So now I one day look at my website, I think you know what i'm going to make my headings green, so I go to my homepage I see green.
Gerald Glynn: And i'm happy and then I click on my CV i'm like all it's pink and green here, so now i'm maintaining to style sheets.
Gerald Glynn: But it's one website, I want, there can be a consistent and aesthetic across my website so as we discussed and very before we discuss various ways that CSS can be it can be.
Gerald Glynn: In line so written into the element, it can be embedded and that's what we've done today, and then you remember the third way that we, the third place, that we can keep our style sheets.
Gerald Glynn: So we said that we can keep them externally so let's just do a quick and i'm going to do a quick search on CSS and external.
Gerald Glynn: file stern known as to the first one is turn your forehead see that that gives me okay so w three schools again it's a nice I find for the level that we're at the moment it's it's a nice and.
Gerald Glynn: it's a good website to go to so some of this is looking familiar, I have a to have dark and then within the head, all I have in my head at the moment is tightening they have this other thing called a link.
Gerald Glynn: And you're going to copy just for the sake of time i'm going to copy and paste dash.
Gerald Glynn: So it says link has an attribute and Arielle means like what it relates to the exact different types of links of.
Gerald Glynn: and other content that we want to want to bring into the website so all we're doing is telling the web pages like this is a link to a file somewhere and it's it's it's about the style sheet it's to do with and the style of my website so, and so I need somehow to get the style.
Gerald Glynn: and
Gerald Glynn: Out of these pages and into a separate resource, so what i'm going to do on my website is i'm going to right click create a folder.
Gerald Glynn: And all i'm doing is just glitch and again so right taking on my website i'm creating a new folder, and this is the first.
Gerald Glynn: A group of assets that we've introduced so i'm just going to kind of create a folder called assets and and then within that i'm going to create a.
Gerald Glynn: yeah let's just create a file called.
CSS.
Gerald Glynn: And it opens it up there in vs code so.
Gerald Glynn: I want to tell.
Gerald Glynn: This web page to reference this started, so I just in my address double quotes it's an attribute to html.
Gerald Glynn: element and then i'm going to vs code review press and full stop or period forward slash.
Gerald Glynn: that's telling this she's, this is a relative URL because I don't know where my website going live, yes, you know I mean when I move it on my machine, so I want to say, full stop forward slash says from this folder.
Gerald Glynn: What where can I go from there and it vs code is very smart It shows me that there's something called assets and with in acids, there is a file called CSS so i'm going to add delete this one.
Gerald Glynn: And i'm now going to.
Gerald Glynn: Take.
Gerald Glynn: This style and put it in my.
CSS.
Gerald Glynn: So am vs code is showing me done this i've done incorrectly on purpose to show you a CSS is our vs codes.
Gerald Glynn: And error detection so much I can word if you misspelled word it underlines it and read so vs code and is pretty good at detecting errors so it's it's underlines here.
Gerald Glynn: And it says X room are selector expected already know that mean Bush this looked like it was right, but remember the style tag is html element.
Gerald Glynn: Which in which between the opening closing day we put our CSS is a CSS file so there's no but ah man I miss have no business in here so i'm going to remove the style tag you don't need you anymore, and then i'm just going to clean up my inventing.
Gerald Glynn: So just like we discussed so I can select all the texture control a on windows command a on on a MAC and I can endanger that way if I want to end and.
Gerald Glynn: The opposite way I just press shift and tab so, and if you don't have to type or is it usually lives on the left hand side above capsule and it looks like.
Gerald Glynn: flash so whenever I say tab that's the key I mean I know what i'm doing now is pressing shift and tab to.
Gerald Glynn: Do and I leave my CSS commenting as a reminder.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so I linked this file in my website, I had originally turned green as an example, so if everyone can't plan, when I refresh my.
Gerald Glynn: homepage it should have picked up this tells us boom.
Gerald Glynn: and
Gerald Glynn: I have ish.
Gerald Glynn: left here so i'm going to remove this.
Gerald Glynn: From here now it's going to.
Gerald Glynn: We talked about the cascading nature of style sheets cascading means and a few different things to one really we learned of cascading nature is.
Gerald Glynn: The last the last rule is the one that is respected, so you can override simply because it came later within the styling cheese and another room is that.
Gerald Glynn: And let's just do something simple here.
Gerald Glynn: i'm going to do is on the heading to.
Gerald Glynn: The other room is the precedence of where this style is the location of the style takes precedence, so I have a style sheet here and i'm going to go to my CV and a comment just temporarily comments deserves.
Gerald Glynn: And refresh oops okay why didn't it work because we don't have our stars you think he's going to copy that link into the head i'm going to put it down.
Gerald Glynn: Tony here.
and
Gerald Glynn: refresh okay I starting is working and, for some reason I want my seat that my h2o is on my CV to be green.
Gerald Glynn: It just it's just a page, I wanted to make a lot of to step outside of the binding I agreed, and so one way to do that if it's not about advising series but i'm using this as an example to show this so i'm going to make that heading to green.
Gerald Glynn: Okay.
Gerald Glynn: So it is a broad in the style, so what what this has done is it's brought in the CSS styling for the page as occasion the style sheet and then because this came afterwards is style block.
Gerald Glynn: It overrides and this with green so you can do this, am at a document level and also, I may I have he was here.
Gerald Glynn: Bush, and so I just put up this is.
Gerald Glynn: and
Gerald Glynn: This is embedded.
Gerald Glynn: In.
Gerald Glynn: CSS.
Gerald Glynn: This isn't, this is a link to external CSS.
Gerald Glynn: And for some reason I may want to apply a different color or any CSS to my first one here, I want to give it some attention, so I can do style equals.
color.
red.
Gerald Glynn: And when we do this, this is called a.
Gerald Glynn: Okay we're coming up to find the hour, so any questions on that.
Gerald Glynn: So at generally, we want to keep all our style sheets out of the html document so we want to keep all our styling here.
Gerald Glynn: And so, if we wanted to achieve what I did here with a different color on a separate page and a different color for the first one, and we have better tools to help us with that and we look at em I just leave ish.
Gerald Glynn: yeah i'll leave it that, so what we what we've been moving on to within CSS is m classing and we introduce classes to our html elements in order to help tell the styling hopes tyler's that's what we'll be looking at next week.
Gerald Glynn: Okay, so am I going to open the assignment backup.
Gerald Glynn: So so stay we covered our styling and CSS so you can get started on your assignment straight away and we didn't we didn't talk about how to link the pages, we did cover links, though, so I just do a quick.
Gerald Glynn: example dash and on the page introducing, whereas it is or perish here is my CV as CV is the text, I want to put on a link.
Gerald Glynn: And I can link dash hatred, is the attribute equals two and articles, and I can use just a like requires linking the size is just to put in full stop or period forward slash and I can link that to my CV so.
Gerald Glynn: Before I had to independent.
Gerald Glynn: web pages.
Gerald Glynn: But now I have this web pages linked to this is the first step to a website is linking those web pages and so that's something you can do is when, so I would.
Gerald Glynn: From today I would start fleshing out your five pages and think about what content, you want to plant them in last semester we teach you rose.
Gerald Glynn: blog posts in Martin So there you go perfect content within that you add images and lists you add institute's a table, and so, if we didn't cover tables day, but I would encourage you to go and and look up some examples on w three schools, so that shouldn't hold you back and.
Gerald Glynn: So get a table, you would have had a table in your proposed Martin so and Stephen get a table and coming together, even if it looks messy just add look at w three schools example and get a table on one of the web pages and what else can you start moving on.
Gerald Glynn: so that you can separate and some contact and then and we'll look as forums input forums and next week and and we'll look ash making a contact form on a comment in front of me in front of me okay two minutes to two Okay, so any concerns queries before we wrap up.
Baptiste Gilistro: quickly yeah so can we use a you know the last second last decision assignments about is what you told me right, like the the.
Baptiste Gilistro: The website, the blog we made that's a list last session, can we use this as an example to the our websites.
Gerald Glynn: Perfect so last two last semester you wrote a blog post.
Gerald Glynn: As investor then yeah.
Gerald Glynn: You can use, you can use all of that.
Gerald Glynn: I would we use that content, if you want for this at to focus on this assignment isn't so much the content.
Gerald Glynn: And it's more the use of the html elements, so if you want to use that I mean a CV works is a good example because you probably have dash and like you saw it could.
Gerald Glynn: Use headings break it down into lists and any other thing that you wanted any other html elements that you think would work plan on your CV and it says in style you've done in word to your CV or other documents see if you can figure out how to replicate bash in html and CSS.
And markup.
Baptiste Gilistro: And what about you yeah that will see the aesthetic aesthetic time I guess you know, like it's mostly.
Gerald Glynn: focused on just.
Gerald Glynn: just get it there and and you know would be deep will be going deeper into as CSS as so m don't have anything to do with.
Gerald Glynn: Like that that's like the full width web page like into that website I would leave anyway so we're going to be looking ash, you know how we're going to look to make this look like a.
Gerald Glynn: smarter website so everything on our layout.
Gerald Glynn: And in CSS.
Baptiste Gilistro: Okay, so if I just keep it simple and then you could say they shall be okay.
Gerald Glynn: yeah and feel like I like feel free to jump ahead and start looking ash and.
Gerald Glynn: Think about how you might do something that you may want to do, and if you just search em.
Gerald Glynn: w three schools.
Gerald Glynn: seems to always come up now on results so either you can follow into their or even search directly within w three schools and.
Gerald Glynn: If you have an idea of something that you want to replicate and you don't know you know you're not going to know what the CSS.
Gerald Glynn: name for that you're not going to know what the html attributes is for those So if you search em there's a quick hack and actually when you search individual skills think.
Gerald Glynn: yeah actually when you search within w three schools it's now its own internal search it's powered by Google so it's the same as if you were to search on Google and if anyone ever wants to touch do this so.
Gerald Glynn: Quick search hack.
Gerald Glynn: If you ever want to search a website for something.
Gerald Glynn: That you can go site colon w three schools, and you can say what do I want to know.
Gerald Glynn: And image.
Gerald Glynn: So, and this works on most search engines, so if you're like me and you want to avoid using Google search, which is what are the three skills such as verify, then you can just use site colon.
Gerald Glynn: Any URL and your search term, and that was search and return search results only from that website so this might be handy is, if you you figured you want to do something and I want to create a table with the header.
Gerald Glynn: You know I don't know what that means what that html tag is was searching just that term issues enter and getting some decent results there, how to create a tab header and then Th tag.
Gerald Glynn: So I want to be i'm not going to be hand holding me.
Gerald Glynn: For the entire course of you know, this is anatomy and put it in place, I want, and at the start, was starting off with baby steps last week, and this week, but eventually you should be.
Gerald Glynn: researching your own nature elements and trying to get them working and researching your own as CSS styling that you want, how you want them to look as much on your own and then using this time and my time to to help debug are em.
Gerald Glynn: You know, maybe, maybe you got something working we don't really understand why it's working let's let's use that as an example and get better content for the past.
Gerald Glynn: And so, a couple of I know we're just kind of overtime, so a couple of things so.
Gerald Glynn: And justin and as class REPS and we have, I am and jess myself as a meeting scheduled for Monday.
Gerald Glynn: So if there are concerns that you're adding you don't want to bring them to me directly and and they're your go tues so i'd encourage you to get in contact.
Gerald Glynn: With them before the weekend and i'm imagining they were 12 noon on Monday and and the other good news is, we have a contract signed for at the road is m.
Gerald Glynn: The road is like technical think it's a technical assistant, is what the contractors so m their role.
Gerald Glynn: within them that's for the masters, overall, so any technical difficulties people run into more around installing software and ebit attash.
Gerald Glynn: So i'm meeting with her tomorrow and myself Eleanor a meeting to discuss in debt was your role is she has a fixed amount of contract areas, so I might do is as the course we're going to be ramping up.
Gerald Glynn: This course more and more so if and if there's a need for connects to support and maybe to go through, something I did a lecture at a more tutorial level.
Gerald Glynn: And that's what we'll have that supports me in place, so I don't want to be using her and hours with supporting students want to one what we'll do is we're trying when we start running into more difficult and aspects of web development we can.
Gerald Glynn: run a story, based on a task that senior for one of your assignments, and I I returned to her, and we, we can organize tutorials later on in a couple of weeks.
Gerald Glynn: Okay.
Gerald Glynn: Okay there's no more questions i'll stop the recording.
and stop video.